Task/config options doc (#853)
LLNL/axom: src/docs/sphinx/quickstart_guide/config_build.rst

Basic requirements:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  * C++ Compiler with C++11 support at a minimum. Depending on which Axom 
    features you enable, a C++14 compliant compiler may be required.
  * CMake. Minimum version required is 3.8.2. If using CUDA, 3.9 is the minimum 

>     required version.

Reviewer: Axom requires C++14 now.  We agreed upon that and it's in the release notes and guarded against in the top-level `CMakeLists.txt`. Therefore it's clearly law!

>     required version.

Reviewer: Severely doubt 3.8 or 3.9 would work anymore.  We should just more forward to 3.14+ for regular and CUDA and 3.21 for HIP  (@bmhan12 ?)

>     required version.

Author: I thought those versions were old, but that's what's in our top-level CMakeLists.txt file.  I will change the docs and the cmake file.  @bmhan12 are you sure we need >= 3.21 for HIP?  I know that's the earliest CMake version that supports CMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES, but I believe BLT supports that variable for older CMake versions.

>     required version.

Author: Thanks. I will change that. The docs said we needed C++11.

>     required version.

Reviewer 2: @rhornung67  Going over my notes again, specifically 3.19.2 will work as well. 3.20.X isn't a default module available on corona/tioga, so I cannot say for sure >=3.19.2 will work for HIP (I've seen CUDA builds succeed, fail, then succeed again with successive CMake versions).

>     required version.

Author: fixed.

Basic requirements:
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

  * C++ compiler with C++14 support at a minimum
  * CMake with a minimum required version of 3.14 for CPU-only and CUDA builds,
    and a minimum version of 3.21 when building with HIP support
  * Fortran Compiler (optional)

Supported Compilers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Axom supports a wide variety of compilers. Please see the file 
``axom/scripts/spack/configs/<platform>/compilers.yaml``
for the current list of supported and tested compilers for the platforms we
test on.

.. _dependencies-label:

External Dependencies
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Axom has two types of dependencies:

> * **Libraries.** These contain code that axom must link against.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Libraries.** These contain code that Axom must link against.
```

Author: changed

* **Tools.** These are executables that we use during code development; e.g. 
  generate documentation, format code, etc.

Unless noted otherwise in the following discussion, Axom dependencies are 
optional.

.. note:: A typical Axom user need only understand how to enable Axom features
          and provide a valid installation path for each required library
          dependency for each enabled feature. 

Library Dependencies
""""""""""""""""""""

The following table lists:

  * Axom external library dependencies and links to documentation for
    each library
  * Which libraries are required or optional dependencies for Axom. While 
    most Axom libraries are not required, they are required to access all 
    capabilities of components listed.
  * The CMake variable that must be set to the path of each library 
    installation when configuring a build with the library

================== ==================================== ======================
  Library          Dependent Components                 Build system variable
================== ==================================== ======================

>   `Conduit`_       Required: Sidre                      CONDUIT_DIR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  `Conduit`_       Required: Sidre, Inlet               CONDUIT_DIR
```

Author: added

.. _Shroud: https://shroud.readthedocs.io/en/develop/
.. _Sphinx: http://www.sphinx-doc.org/en/master/

Each tool has a corresponding build system variable (with the suffix 
``_EXECUTABLE``) to supply a path to the tool executable. For example, 
``sphinx`` has a corresponding build system variable ``SPHINX_EXECUTABLE``.

> .. note:: To get a full list of all Axom dependencies in an ``uberenv``
>           build of our TPLs, please go to the TPL root directory and
>           run the following Spack command ``./spack/bin/spack spec axom``.

Reviewer 3: This note should tell how to print dependencies in a vcpkg build as well as in a spack build.  It should also be moved to the end of the next section, after the discussion of uberenv, spack, and vcpkg.  I'd put it just before the line that contains `.. _building-axom-label:`, about 50 source lines down.  At that point, uberenv, spack, and vcpkg will be fully introduced (with diagrams) and fresh in the user's mind.

Possible rephrase:
```suggestion
.. note:: To get a full list of all Axom dependencies in an ``uberenv``
          ``spack`` build of our TPLs, please go to the TPL root directory
          and run the following Spack command: ``./spack/bin/spack spec axom``.
          The analogous command for an ``uberenv`` ``vcpkg`` build is:
          ``.\vcpkg depend-info axom``.
```

Author: good suggestion. change made.

---------------------------------------------

We use the `Spack Package Manager <https://github.com/spack/spack>`_
to manage and build TPL dependencies for Axom on Linux and MacOS systems.
Similarly, support for managing and building TPLs on Windows is provided 
through `Vcpkg <https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg>`_.

To make the TPL management process easier and automatic (you don't really need 
to learn much about Spack or Vcpkg), we drive it with a Python script called 
``uberenv.py``, which is located in the ``scripts/uberenv`` directory. 
Running this script on Linux or MacOS does several things:

  * It clones the Spack repo from GitHub and checks out a specific version
    that we have tested.
  * It configures Spack compiler sets, adds custom package build rules, and 
    sets any options specific to Axom.
  * It invokes Spack to build a complete set of TPLs for each configuration and 
    generates a *host-config* file (i.e., CMake cache file) that includes all 
    details of the configuration and build dependencies.

The figure illustrates what the script does.

> .. figure:: Uberenv.jpg

Author: Good point. Please add an issue for that so we don't forget and can add later.

> .. figure:: Uberenv.jpg

Reviewer 3: Issue #857 added.

and install contents for the platform and compiler with names that match
the name of the host-config file.

To build the code and install the header files, libraries, and documentation
in the install directory, go into the build directory and run ``make`` and
``make install``::

   $ cd {build directory}
   $ make
   $ make install

.. caution :: When building on LC systems, please don't compile on login nodes.
              You will incur the wrath of others and you really don't want that,
              do you?

.. tip :: Most make targets can be run in parallel by supplying the '-j' flag
          along with the number of threads to use. For example::

            $ make -j 8 
      
          runs make using 8 threads.

The Python helper script accepts other arguments that allow you to specify
explicitly the build and install paths and build type. Following CMake
conventions, we support three build types: ``Release``, ``RelWithDebInfo``, and
``Debug``. To see the script options, run the script without any arguments::

   $ ./config-build.py

You can also pass extra CMake configuration variables to the script. For 
example::

>    $ ./config-build.py -hc path/to/host-config/file/<host-config file name> \

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   $ ./config-build.py -hc path/to/host-config/file \
```

Reviewer: To me this almost implies some duplication..

---------------------------------------------

We use the `Spack Package Manager <https://github.com/spack/spack>`_
to manage and build TPL dependencies for Axom. The Spack process works on 
Linux and macOS systems. Although we test Axom on Windows and some Axom users
build their applications for Windows, Axom does not currently have a tool to 

> automatically build dependencies for Windows systems.

Reviewer 4: This is out of date w.r.t. windows.
Something along the following line might be better:

> We use the `Spack Package Manager <https://github.com/spack/spack>`_
to manage and build TPL dependencies for Axom on Linux and macOS systems.
Similarly, support for managing and building TPLs on Windows is provided through `Vcpkg <https://github.com/microsoft/vcpkg>`_,

Author: fixed.

To make the TPL management process easier and automatic (you don't really need 

> to learn much about Spack), we drive it with a Python script called 

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
to learn much about Spack or Vcpkg), we drive it with a Python script called 
```

Author: changed.

``uberenv.py``, which is located in the ``scripts/uberenv`` directory. 

> Running this script does several things:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Running this script on Linux or MacOS does several things:
```

|                              |         |                                        |
|                              |         | (e.g. AXOM_ENABLE_SIDRE)               |
|                              |         | for the sidre component                |
|                              |         | for the Sidre component                |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| AXOM_ENABLE_DOCS             | ON      | Builds documentation                   |
| AXOM_ENABLE_EXAMPLES         | ON      | Build Axom examples                    |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| AXOM_ENABLE_EXAMPLES         | ON      | Builds examples                        |
| AXOM_ENABLE_TESTS            | ON      | Build Axom unit tests                  |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| AXOM_ENABLE_TESTS            | ON      | Builds unit tests                      |
| ENABLE_BENCHMARKS            | OFF     | Enable Google benchmark                |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+

> | AXOM_ENABLE_TOOLS            | ON      | Builds tools                           |

Reviewer 4: The tools were moved to a developer section, but I would argue that they are primarily aimed at axom's users.
E.g. they are the only executables that are installed with the axom libraries as part of `make install`.

My vote is to move that line back to this table.

Author: done.

> to Axom external dependencies.

Reviewer 4: Suggestion: It might be worth adding that these take the form of a CMake variable `FOO_DIR` with a path to a valid installation for package `Foo`.

Author: that point is mentioned a couple of times in the section referenced. I will reinforce the point here.

+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| HIP_ROOT_DIR                 | Path to HIP software stack installation  |
+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| CMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES      | Target architecture(s) for HIP           |
+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+

.. important:: Depending on the version of RAJA you are using, you may need to
               set the C++ standard to C++14. RAJA requires C++14 as of release
               v2022.03.0.

.. note :: To configure the version of the C++ standard, you can supply one of the
           following values for **BLT_CXX_STD**:  'c++11' or 'c++14'.
           Axom requires at least 'c++11', the  default value.

Tools and features primarily intended for developers
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+------------------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| OPTION                                   | Default | Description                            |
+==========================================+=========+========================================+

> | AXOM_ENABLE_TOOLS                        | ON      | Enable Axom development tools          |

Reviewer 4: As I noted above, I think the `AXOM_ENABLE_TOOLS` option should be moved back to the first table in this section.

Author: done.

CMake Configuration Options
---------------------------

The tables in this section summarize the main build system options in Axom.

Axom components, tests, examples, etc.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| OPTION                       | Default | Description                            |
+==============================+=========+========================================+
| AXOM_ENABLE_ALL_COMPONENTS   | ON      | Enable all components by default       |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| AXOM_ENABLE_<FOO>            | ON      | Enable the axom component named 'Foo'  |
|                              |         |                                        |
|                              |         | (e.g. AXOM_ENABLE_SIDRE)               |

> |                              |         | for the Sidre component                |

Reviewer 3: How does `AXOM_ENABLE_ALL_COMPONENTS ON` interact with (say) `AXOM_ENABLE_SIDRE OFF`?  Does the more specific option control, or is it "last one wins?"

Author: It looks to me that that case will enable all components except Sidre. @white238 is that correct?

Reviewer 3: That is what I would intend, and I think that's what we would get.  So could we say at this line in the table,

```suggestion
|                              |         | for the Sidre component.                |
|                              |         | Overrides AXOM_ENABLE_ALL_COMPONENTS.  |
```

Author: I added that to the table and a more explicit explanation in the text below.

+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| AXOM_ENABLE_DOCS             | ON      | Enable Axom documentation to be built  |
|                              |         | as a make target                       |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| AXOM_ENABLE_TOOLS            | ON      | Enable Axom development tools          |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+

If ``AXOM_ENABLE_ALL_COMPONENTS`` is OFF, you must explicitly enable the desired
components (other than 'core', which is always enabled).

See `Axom software documentation <../../../index.html>`_
for a list of Axom components and their dependencies. Note that when enabling 
an external dependency for an Axom component, the CMake variable ``BAR_DIR`` 
must be set to a valid path to the dependency installation. See 
:ref:`dependencies-label` for a complete listing of configuration variables 
to specify paths to Axom external dependencies. 

.. note:: ``AXOM_ENABLE_EXAMPLES``, ``AXOM_ENABLE_TESTS``, and ``AXOM_ENABLE_DOCS``

>           are *CMake-dependent options*. Thus, if a non-Axom prefix variable form

Reviewer 3: I was confused by this sentence.  Is this what you meant?

```suggestion
          are *CMake-dependent options*. Thus, if a variable without the prefix ``AXOM_``
```

Author: Yes, that's what I meant. I changed to your suggestion as it is clearer.

|                              | enabled by those parallel programming    |
|                              | models in Axom.                          |
+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| CUDA_TOOLKIT_ROOT_DIR        | Path to CUDA software stack installation |
+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| CMAKE_CUDA_COMPILER          | Path to CUDA compiler (e.g. nvcc)        |
+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| CMAKE_CUDA_ARCHITECTURES     | Target architecture(s) for CUDA          |
+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| HIP_ROOT_DIR                 | Path to HIP software stack installation  |
+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+
| CMAKE_HIP_ARCHITECTURES      | Target architecture(s) for HIP           |
+------------------------------+------------------------------------------+

.. important:: Depending on the version of RAJA you are using, you may need to
               set the C++ standard to C++14. RAJA requires C++14 as of release

>                v2022.03.0.

Reviewer 3: Maybe this change is outside the PR's scope, but if Axom requires C++14 (as @white238 pointed out), shouldn't we ensure the C++ standard is at least C++14?

Author: We do that here: https://github.com/LLNL/axom/blob/develop/src/CMakeLists.txt#L46 but it doesn't cover all app integration cases.  But, we have this guard here for users:
https://github.com/LLNL/axom/blob/develop/src/CMakeLists.txt#L100

Author: Done.

CMake Configuration Options
---------------------------

The tables in this section summarize the main build system options in Axom.

Axom components, tests, examples, etc.
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| OPTION                       | Default | Description                            |
+==============================+=========+========================================+
| AXOM_ENABLE_ALL_COMPONENTS   | ON      | Enable all components by default       |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+

> | AXOM_ENABLE_<FOO>            | ON      | Enable the axom component named 'Foo'  |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| AXOM_ENABLE_<FOO>            | ON      | Enable the Axom component named 'Foo'  |
```

Author: changed

|                              |         |                                        |
|                              |         | (e.g. AXOM_ENABLE_SIDRE)               |
|                              |         | for the Sidre component.               |
|                              |         |                                        |
|                              |         | Overrides AXOM_ENABLE_ALL_COMPONENTS   |
|                              |         | for the specified component.           |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| AXOM_ENABLE_EXAMPLES         | ON      | Build Axom examples                    |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+
| AXOM_ENABLE_TESTS            | ON      | Build Axom unit tests                  |
+------------------------------+---------+----------------------------------------+

> | ENABLE_BENCHMARKS            | OFF     | Enable Google benchmark                |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| ENABLE_BENCHMARKS            | OFF     | Enable Axom benchmarks                |
```

Author: changed
